arc/codec-test/README.md, before:

# arc-codec-test: ARC++ Video Codec End-to-end Test

## Manually run the test

You need to be running the Android container on your Chromebook to run the
tests. Make sure the device under test (DUT) can be connected adb.

1.  Connect to the DUT via adb
    ```
    (Outside CrOS chroot)
    $ adb connect <chromebook_ip>:22
    ```

2.  Build the e2e test
    ```
    (In CrOS chroot)
    $ emerge-<BOARD> arc-codec-test
    ```

3.  Push the binary to DUT

    Encoder E2E test:
    ```
    (Outside CrOS chroot)
    $ adb push \
      <CHROMIUMOS_ROOT>/chroot/build/<BOARD>/usr/libexec/arc-binary-tests/arcvideoencoder_test_<abi> \
      /data/local/tmp/
    ```

    Decoder E2E test:
    ```
    (Outside CrOS chroot)
    $ adb push \
      <CHROMIUMOS_ROOT>/chroot/build/<BOARD>/usr/libexec/arc-binary-tests/arcvideodecoder_test_<abi> \
      /data/local/tmp/
    ```

    Hint: The path of the binary can be found by:
    ```
    (In CrOS chroot)
    $ equery-<BOARD> files arc-codec-test
    ````

4.  Run E2E tests

    Encoder E2E test:
        (1) Push the test stream to DUT
        ```
        $ adb push test-320x180.yuv /data/local/tmp/
        ```

        (2) Run the test binary
        ```
        $ adb shell "cd /data/local/tmp; \
                     ./arcvideoencoder_test_<abi> --test_stream_data=test-320x180.yuv:320:180:1:out1.h264:100000:30"
        ```

    Decoder E2E test:
        (1) Push the test stream to DUT
        ```
        $ adb push test-25fps.h264 /data/local/tmp/
        ```

        (2) Run the test binary
        ```
        $ adb shell "cd /data/local/tmp; \
                     ./arcvideodecoder_test_<abi> --test_video_data=test-25fps.h264:320:240:250:258:::1"
        ```

Commit message:

arc: validate decoded output video by golden frame-wise MD5
VideoFrame is implemented for converting output frame data into
I420 pixel format cropping visible window. In order to compute MD5
and validate with golden one in frame-wise, and ouput to raw file
if needed.

For ARC++N, output buffer will return YUV_420_FLEXIBLE as color
format which may be either NV12 or YV12 underneath. In this case,
we need to try converting from both formats and match the golden
MD5 to find out the right format. This requires to be done in the
first output frame and then adopt to the whole stream.

Golden frame-wise MD5 is read from the text file which should be
named as <test-input-name>.frames.md5, and located in the same
directory.

BUG=b:112677333
TEST=run arcvideodecoder_test on Eve(P) and Coral(N)

Change-Id: I0b14399c0b08c7860bc93928657c511cef6cc3f3
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/1565830
Commit-Ready: ChromeOS CL Exonerator Bot <chromiumos-cl-exonerator@appspot.gserviceaccount.com>
Tested-by: Pin-chih Lin <johnylin@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Chih-Yu Huang <akahuang@chromium.org>

arc/codec-test/README.md, after:

# arc-codec-test: ARC++ Video Codec End-to-end Test

## Manually run the test

You need to be running the Android container on your Chromebook to run the
tests. Make sure the device under test (DUT) can be connected adb.

1.  Connect to the DUT via adb
    ```
    (Outside CrOS chroot)
    $ adb connect <chromebook_ip>:22
    ```

2.  Build the e2e test
    ```
    (In CrOS chroot)
    $ emerge-<BOARD> arc-codec-test
    ```

3.  Push the binary to DUT

    Encoder E2E test:
    ```
    (Outside CrOS chroot)
    $ adb push \
      <CHROMIUMOS_ROOT>/chroot/build/<BOARD>/usr/libexec/arc-binary-tests/arcvideoencoder_test_<abi> \
      /data/local/tmp/
    ```

    Decoder E2E test:
    ```
    (Outside CrOS chroot)
    $ adb push \
      <CHROMIUMOS_ROOT>/chroot/build/<BOARD>/usr/libexec/arc-binary-tests/arcvideodecoder_test_<abi> \
      /data/local/tmp/
    ```

    Hint: The path of the binary can be found by:
    ```
    (In CrOS chroot)
    $ equery-<BOARD> files arc-codec-test
    ````

4.  Run E2E tests

    Encoder E2E test:
        (1) Push the test stream to DUT
        ```
        $ adb push test-320x180.yuv /data/local/tmp/
        ```

        (2) Run the test binary
        ```
        $ adb shell "cd /data/local/tmp; \
                     ./arcvideoencoder_test_<abi> --test_stream_data=test-320x180.yuv:320:180:1:out1.h264:100000:30"
        ```

    Decoder E2E test:
        (1) Push the test stream and frame-wise MD5 file to DUT
        ```
        $ adb push test-25fps.h264 /data/local/tmp/
        $ adb push test-25fps.h264.frames.md5 /data/local/tmp/
        ```

        (2) Run the test binary
        ```
        $ adb shell "cd /data/local/tmp; \
                     ./arcvideodecoder_test_<abi> --test_video_data=test-25fps.h264:320:240:250:258:::1"
        ```
