README.md, before:

# The Chromium OS Platform

This repo holds (most) of the custom code that makes up the Chromium OS
platform.  That largely covers daemons, programs, and libraries that were
written specifically for Chromium OS.

We moved from multiple separate repos in platform/ to a single repo in
platform2/ for a number of reasons:

* Make it easier to work across multiple projects simultaneously
* Increase code re-use (via common libs) rather than duplicate utility
  functions multiple items over
* Share the same build system

While most projects were merged, not all of them were.  Some projects were
standalone already (such as vboot), or never got around to being folded in
(such as imageloader).  Some day those extra projects might get merged in.

Similarly, some projects that were merged in, were then merged back out.
This was due to the evolution of the Brillo project and collaboration with
Android.  That means the AOSP repos are the upstream and Chromium OS carries
copies.

# Local Project Directory

| Project | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| [arc](./arc/) | Tools/deamons/init-scripts to run ARC |
| [attestation](./attestation/) | Daemon and client for managing remote attestation |
| [authpolicy](./authpolicy/) | Daemon for integrating with Microsoft Active Directory (AD) domains |
| [avtest_label_detect](./avtest_label_detect/) | Test tool for OCRing device labels |
| [biod](./biod/) | Biometrics daemon |
| [bluetooth](./bluetooth/) | Bluetooth Service and tools |
| [bootstat](./bootstat/) | Tools for tracking points in the overall boot process (for metrics) |
| [buffet](./buffet/) | Daemon for reacting to cloud messages |
| [camera](./camera/) | Chrome OS Camera daemon |
| [cecservice](./cecservice/) | Service for switching CEC enabled TVs on and off |
| [cfm-device-updater](./cfm-device-updater/) | Firmware updaters for CFM peripherals |
| [chaps](./chaps/) | PKCS #11 implementation for TPM 1 devices |
| [chromeos-common-script](./chromeos-common-script/) | Shared scripts for partitions and basic disk information |
| [chromeos-config](./chromeos-config/) | CrOS unified build runtime config manager |
| [chromeos-dbus-bindings](./chromeos-dbus-bindings/) | Simplifies the implementation of D-Bus daemons and proxies |
| [common-mk](./common-mk/) | Common build & test logic for platform2 projects |
| [container_utils](./container_utils/) | Support tools for containers (e.g. device-jail) |
| [crash-reporter](./crash-reporter/) | The system crash handler & reporter |
| [cros-disks](./cros-disks/) | Daemon for mounting removable media (e.g. USB sticks and SD cards) |
| [cros-fuzz](./cros-fuzz/) | Support crate for fuzzing rust code |
| [cros_component](./cros_component/) ||
| [crosdns](./crosdns/) | Hostname resolution service for Chrome OS |
| [crosh](./crosh/) | The Chromium OS shell |
| [cryptohome](./cryptohome/) | Daemon and tools for managing encrypted /home and /var directories |
| [cups_proxy](./cups_proxy/) | Daemon for proxying CUPS printing request |
| [debugd](./debugd/) | Centralized debug daemon for random tools |
| [diagnostics](./diagnostics/) | Device telemetry and diagnostics daemons |
| [disk_updater](./disk_updater/) | Utility for updating root disk firmware (e.g. SSDs and eMMC) |
| [dlcservice](./dlcservice/) | Downloadable Content (DLC) Service daemon |
| [easy-unlock](./easy-unlock/) | Daemon for handling Easy Unlock requests (e.g. unlocking Chromebooks with an Android device) |
| [feedback](./feedback/) | Daemon for headless systems that want to gather feedback (normally Chrome manages it) |
| [fitpicker](./fitpicker/) ||
| [glib-bridge](./glib-bridge/) | library for libchrome-glib message loop interoperation |
| [goldfishd](./goldfishd/) | Android Emulator Daemon |
| [hammerd](./hammerd/) | Firmware updater utility for hammer hardware |
| [hardware_verifier](./hardware_verifier/) | Hardware verifier tool |
| [hermes](./hermes/) | Chrome OS LPA implementation for eSIM hardware support |
| [image-burner](./image-burner/) | Daemon for writing disk images (e.g. recovery) to USB sticks & SD cards |
| [imageloader](./imageloader/) | Daemon for mounting signed disk images |
| [init](./init/) | CrOS common startup init scripts and boot time helpers |
| [installer](./installer/) | CrOS installer utility (for AU/recovery/etc...) |
| [ippusb_manager](./ippusb_manager/) | "Service" for ipp-over-usb printing |
| [kerberos](./kerberos/) | Daemon for managing Kerberos tickets |
| [libbrillo](./libbrillo/) | Common platform utility library |
| [libchromeos-rs](./libchromeos-rs/) | Common platform utility library for Rust |
| [libchromeos-ui](./libchromeos-ui/) ||
| [libcontainer](./libcontainer/) ||
| [libhwsec](./libhwsec/) | Library for the utility functions of all TPM related daemons |
| [libipproto](./libipproto/) | Library for building and parsing IPP (Internet Printing Protocol) frames |
| [libmems](./libmems/) | Utility library to configure, manage and retrieve events from IIO sensors |
| [libpasswordprovider](./libpasswordprovider/) | Password Provider library for securely managing credentials with system services |
| [libtpmcrypto](./libtpmcrypto/) | Library for AES256-GCM encryption with TPM sealed keys |
| [login_manager](./login_manager/) | Session manager for handling the life cycle of the main session (e.g. Chrome) |
| [lorgnette](./lorgnette/) | Daemon for managing attached USB scanners via [SANE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scanner_Access_Now_Easy) |
| [media_perception](./media_perception/) | Media perception service for select platforms |
| [memd](./metrics/memd/) | Daemon that logs memory-related data and events |
| [mems_setup](./mems_setup/) | Boot-time initializer tool for sensors |
| [metrics](./metrics/) | Client side user metrics collection |
| [midis](./midis/) | [MIDI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIDI) service |
| [mist](./mist/) | Modem USB Interface Switching Tool |
| [ml](./ml/) | Machine learning service |
| [modem-utilities](./modem-utilities/) ||
| [modemfwd](./modemfwd/) | Daemon for managing modem firmware updaters |
| [mtpd](./mtpd/) | Daemon for handling Media Transfer Protocol (MTP) with devices (e.g. phones) |
| [oobe_config](./oobe_config/) | Utilities for saving and restoring OOBE config state |
| [p2p](./p2p/) | Service for sharing files between CrOS devices (e.g. updates) |
| [peerd](./peerd/) | Daemon for communicating with local peers |
| [permission_broker](./permission_broker/) ||
| [policy_proto](./policy_proto/) | Build file to compile policy proto file |
| [policy_utils](./policy_utils/) | Tools and related library to set or override device policies |
| [portier](./portier/) | Multi-Network Neighbor Discovery Proxy service for Chrome OS |
| [power_manager](./power_manager/) | Userspace power management daemon and associated tools |
| [qmi2cpp](./qmi2cpp/) | Chrome OS QMI IDL Compiler |
| [regions](./regions/) ||
| [rendernodehost](./rendernodehost/)| Render node forward library |
| [run_oci](./run_oci/) | Minimalistic container runtime |
| [runtime_probe](./runtime_probe/) | Runtime probe tool for ChromeOS |
| [salsa](./salsa/) | Touchpad experimentation framework |
| [screenshot](./screenshot/) | Tiny command to take a screenshot |
| [sealed_storage](./sealed_storage/) | Library for sealing data to device identity and state |
| [secure_erase_file](./secure_erase_file/) | Helper tools for securely erasing files from storage (e.g. keys and PII data) |
| [sepolicy](./sepolicy/) | SELinux policy for Chrome OS |
| [shill](./shill/) | Chrome OS Connection Manager |
| [smbprovider](./smbprovider/) | Daemon for connecting Samba / Windows networking shares to the Files.app |
| [smogcheck](./smogcheck/) | Developer library for working with raw I2C devices |
| [st_flash](./st_flash/) ||
| [storage_info](./storage_info/) | Helper shell functions for retrieving disk information) |
| [system_api](./system_api/) | Headers and .proto files etc. to be shared with chromium |
| [thd](./thd/) | Thermal daemon to help keep systems running cool |
| [timberslide](./timberslide/) | Tool for working with EC crashes for reporting purposes |
| [touch_firmware_calibration](./touch_firmware_calibration/) ||
| [touch_keyboard](./touch_keyboard/) | Utilities for a touch based virtual keyboard |
| [tpm2-simulator](./tpm2-simulator/) | A software TPM 2.0 implementation (for testing/debugging) |
| [tpm_manager](./tpm_manager/) | Daemon and client for managing TPM setup and operations |
| [trace_events](./trace_events/) | A framework for adding trace events to your Rust code. |
| [trim](./trim/) | Service to manage filesystem trim operations in the background |
| [trunks](./trunks/) | Middleware and resource manager for interfacing with TPM 2.0 hardware |
| [u2fd](./u2fd/) | U2FHID emulation daemon for systems with secure elements (not TPMs) |
| [usb_bouncer](./usb_bouncer/) | Tools for managing USBGuard white-lists and configuration on Chrome OS |
| [userfeedback](./userfeedback/) | Various utilities to gather extended data for user feedback reports |
| [userspace_touchpad](./userspace_touchpad/) ||
| [virtual_file_provider](./virtual_file_provider/) ||
| [vm_tools](./vm_tools/) | Utilities for Virtual Machine (VM) orchestration |
| [vpn-manager](./vpn-manager/) ||
| [webserver](./webserver/) | Small web server with D-Bus client backends |
| [wifi-testbed](./wifi-testbed/) | Tools for creating a WiFi testbed image |

# AOSP Project Directory

These projects can be found here:
https://chromium.googlesource.com/aosp/platform/

Commit message:

tpm_softclear_utils: create the new package under platform2
Creating an empty package now. Implementation will be added later.

BUG=b:134989300
TEST=(tested along with chromium:1673713)
     Running `emerge-soraka tpm_softclear_utils` doesn't report any error.
     Being able to cros_workon the pacakge tpm_softclear_utils w/o causing any
     error.

Change-Id: I281cd02fda41e45f450da2cd805928087d3d37e6
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/1673946
Tested-by: Wei-Cheng Xiao <garryxiao@chromium.org>
Commit-Ready: Wei-Cheng Xiao <garryxiao@chromium.org>
Legacy-Commit-Queue: Commit Bot <commit-bot@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Louis Collard <louiscollard@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Leo Lai <cylai@google.com>

README.md, after:

# The Chromium OS Platform

This repo holds (most) of the custom code that makes up the Chromium OS
platform.  That largely covers daemons, programs, and libraries that were
written specifically for Chromium OS.

We moved from multiple separate repos in platform/ to a single repo in
platform2/ for a number of reasons:

* Make it easier to work across multiple projects simultaneously
* Increase code re-use (via common libs) rather than duplicate utility
  functions multiple items over
* Share the same build system

While most projects were merged, not all of them were.  Some projects were
standalone already (such as vboot), or never got around to being folded in
(such as imageloader).  Some day those extra projects might get merged in.

Similarly, some projects that were merged in, were then merged back out.
This was due to the evolution of the Brillo project and collaboration with
Android.  That means the AOSP repos are the upstream and Chromium OS carries
copies.

# Local Project Directory

| Project | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| [arc](./arc/) | Tools/deamons/init-scripts to run ARC |
| [attestation](./attestation/) | Daemon and client for managing remote attestation |
| [authpolicy](./authpolicy/) | Daemon for integrating with Microsoft Active Directory (AD) domains |
| [avtest_label_detect](./avtest_label_detect/) | Test tool for OCRing device labels |
| [biod](./biod/) | Biometrics daemon |
| [bluetooth](./bluetooth/) | Bluetooth Service and tools |
| [bootstat](./bootstat/) | Tools for tracking points in the overall boot process (for metrics) |
| [buffet](./buffet/) | Daemon for reacting to cloud messages |
| [camera](./camera/) | Chrome OS Camera daemon |
| [cecservice](./cecservice/) | Service for switching CEC enabled TVs on and off |
| [cfm-device-updater](./cfm-device-updater/) | Firmware updaters for CFM peripherals |
| [chaps](./chaps/) | PKCS #11 implementation for TPM 1 devices |
| [chromeos-common-script](./chromeos-common-script/) | Shared scripts for partitions and basic disk information |
| [chromeos-config](./chromeos-config/) | CrOS unified build runtime config manager |
| [chromeos-dbus-bindings](./chromeos-dbus-bindings/) | Simplifies the implementation of D-Bus daemons and proxies |
| [common-mk](./common-mk/) | Common build & test logic for platform2 projects |
| [container_utils](./container_utils/) | Support tools for containers (e.g. device-jail) |
| [crash-reporter](./crash-reporter/) | The system crash handler & reporter |
| [cros-disks](./cros-disks/) | Daemon for mounting removable media (e.g. USB sticks and SD cards) |
| [cros-fuzz](./cros-fuzz/) | Support crate for fuzzing rust code |
| [cros_component](./cros_component/) ||
| [crosdns](./crosdns/) | Hostname resolution service for Chrome OS |
| [crosh](./crosh/) | The Chromium OS shell |
| [cryptohome](./cryptohome/) | Daemon and tools for managing encrypted /home and /var directories |
| [cups_proxy](./cups_proxy/) | Daemon for proxying CUPS printing request |
| [debugd](./debugd/) | Centralized debug daemon for random tools |
| [diagnostics](./diagnostics/) | Device telemetry and diagnostics daemons |
| [disk_updater](./disk_updater/) | Utility for updating root disk firmware (e.g. SSDs and eMMC) |
| [dlcservice](./dlcservice/) | Downloadable Content (DLC) Service daemon |
| [easy-unlock](./easy-unlock/) | Daemon for handling Easy Unlock requests (e.g. unlocking Chromebooks with an Android device) |
| [feedback](./feedback/) | Daemon for headless systems that want to gather feedback (normally Chrome manages it) |
| [fitpicker](./fitpicker/) ||
| [glib-bridge](./glib-bridge/) | library for libchrome-glib message loop interoperation |
| [goldfishd](./goldfishd/) | Android Emulator Daemon |
| [hammerd](./hammerd/) | Firmware updater utility for hammer hardware |
| [hardware_verifier](./hardware_verifier/) | Hardware verifier tool |
| [hermes](./hermes/) | Chrome OS LPA implementation for eSIM hardware support |
| [image-burner](./image-burner/) | Daemon for writing disk images (e.g. recovery) to USB sticks & SD cards |
| [imageloader](./imageloader/) | Daemon for mounting signed disk images |
| [init](./init/) | CrOS common startup init scripts and boot time helpers |
| [installer](./installer/) | CrOS installer utility (for AU/recovery/etc...) |
| [ippusb_manager](./ippusb_manager/) | "Service" for ipp-over-usb printing |
| [kerberos](./kerberos/) | Daemon for managing Kerberos tickets |
| [libbrillo](./libbrillo/) | Common platform utility library |
| [libchromeos-rs](./libchromeos-rs/) | Common platform utility library for Rust |
| [libchromeos-ui](./libchromeos-ui/) ||
| [libcontainer](./libcontainer/) ||
| [libhwsec](./libhwsec/) | Library for the utility functions of all TPM related daemons |
| [libipproto](./libipproto/) | Library for building and parsing IPP (Internet Printing Protocol) frames |
| [libmems](./libmems/) | Utility library to configure, manage and retrieve events from IIO sensors |
| [libpasswordprovider](./libpasswordprovider/) | Password Provider library for securely managing credentials with system services |
| [libtpmcrypto](./libtpmcrypto/) | Library for AES256-GCM encryption with TPM sealed keys |
| [login_manager](./login_manager/) | Session manager for handling the life cycle of the main session (e.g. Chrome) |
| [lorgnette](./lorgnette/) | Daemon for managing attached USB scanners via [SANE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scanner_Access_Now_Easy) |
| [media_perception](./media_perception/) | Media perception service for select platforms |
| [memd](./metrics/memd/) | Daemon that logs memory-related data and events |
| [mems_setup](./mems_setup/) | Boot-time initializer tool for sensors |
| [metrics](./metrics/) | Client side user metrics collection |
| [midis](./midis/) | [MIDI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIDI) service |
| [mist](./mist/) | Modem USB Interface Switching Tool |
| [ml](./ml/) | Machine learning service |
| [modem-utilities](./modem-utilities/) ||
| [modemfwd](./modemfwd/) | Daemon for managing modem firmware updaters |
| [mtpd](./mtpd/) | Daemon for handling Media Transfer Protocol (MTP) with devices (e.g. phones) |
| [oobe_config](./oobe_config/) | Utilities for saving and restoring OOBE config state |
| [p2p](./p2p/) | Service for sharing files between CrOS devices (e.g. updates) |
| [peerd](./peerd/) | Daemon for communicating with local peers |
| [permission_broker](./permission_broker/) ||
| [policy_proto](./policy_proto/) | Build file to compile policy proto file |
| [policy_utils](./policy_utils/) | Tools and related library to set or override device policies |
| [portier](./portier/) | Multi-Network Neighbor Discovery Proxy service for Chrome OS |
| [power_manager](./power_manager/) | Userspace power management daemon and associated tools |
| [qmi2cpp](./qmi2cpp/) | Chrome OS QMI IDL Compiler |
| [regions](./regions/) ||
| [rendernodehost](./rendernodehost/)| Render node forward library |
| [run_oci](./run_oci/) | Minimalistic container runtime |
| [runtime_probe](./runtime_probe/) | Runtime probe tool for ChromeOS |
| [salsa](./salsa/) | Touchpad experimentation framework |
| [screenshot](./screenshot/) | Tiny command to take a screenshot |
| [sealed_storage](./sealed_storage/) | Library for sealing data to device identity and state |
| [secure_erase_file](./secure_erase_file/) | Helper tools for securely erasing files from storage (e.g. keys and PII data) |
| [sepolicy](./sepolicy/) | SELinux policy for Chrome OS |
| [shill](./shill/) | Chrome OS Connection Manager |
| [smbprovider](./smbprovider/) | Daemon for connecting Samba / Windows networking shares to the Files.app |
| [smogcheck](./smogcheck/) | Developer library for working with raw I2C devices |
| [st_flash](./st_flash/) ||
| [storage_info](./storage_info/) | Helper shell functions for retrieving disk information) |
| [system_api](./system_api/) | Headers and .proto files etc. to be shared with chromium |
| [thd](./thd/) | Thermal daemon to help keep systems running cool |
| [timberslide](./timberslide/) | Tool for working with EC crashes for reporting purposes |
| [touch_firmware_calibration](./touch_firmware_calibration/) ||
| [touch_keyboard](./touch_keyboard/) | Utilities for a touch based virtual keyboard |
| [tpm2-simulator](./tpm2-simulator/) | A software TPM 2.0 implementation (for testing/debugging) |
| [tpm_manager](./tpm_manager/) | Daemon and client for managing TPM setup and operations |
| [tpm_softclear_utils](./tpm_softclear_utils/) | Utilities that soft-clear TPM (for testing only) |
| [trace_events](./trace_events/) | A framework for adding trace events to your Rust code. |
| [trim](./trim/) | Service to manage filesystem trim operations in the background |
| [trunks](./trunks/) | Middleware and resource manager for interfacing with TPM 2.0 hardware |
| [u2fd](./u2fd/) | U2FHID emulation daemon for systems with secure elements (not TPMs) |
| [usb_bouncer](./usb_bouncer/) | Tools for managing USBGuard white-lists and configuration on Chrome OS |
| [userfeedback](./userfeedback/) | Various utilities to gather extended data for user feedback reports |
| [userspace_touchpad](./userspace_touchpad/) ||
| [virtual_file_provider](./virtual_file_provider/) ||
| [vm_tools](./vm_tools/) | Utilities for Virtual Machine (VM) orchestration |
| [vpn-manager](./vpn-manager/) ||
| [webserver](./webserver/) | Small web server with D-Bus client backends |
| [wifi-testbed](./wifi-testbed/) | Tools for creating a WiFi testbed image |

# AOSP Project Directory

These projects can be found here:
https://chromium.googlesource.com/aosp/platform/
