ml/docs/publish_model.md, before:

# ChromeOS ML Service: How to publish your ML models

This page explains how to publish a trained ML model so that the ML Service
can make it available at runtime for inference.
Design doc for model publishing: [go/cros-ml-service-models].

[TOC]

## Model format

Currently the ML Service supports **TensorFlow Lite** models.
Each model needs to be a single file.
The file format is a TFLite flat buffers (extension .tflite).

Handy tool: you can convert a TF model into a TFLite model using the internal
tool Toco (see [go/toco]).

## Two methods to publish your models

Two methods will be supported to publish an ML model:

1. Installed into rootfs partition.
2. Installed into the user partition as a downloadable component by DLC
Service.

> WARNING: Currently only the first method is supported. DLC is still under
> development and its ETA is Q4 2018.

To know more about which method you should use and why we have two, read
[section below](#two-methods-why).
In general, **method #2 is the preferred option**, unless you know that you need
method #1 and you have received permission to increase the storage size of
rootfs. Remember that storage in rootfs is limited and we are trying to control
rootfs growth as much as possible.

## Method #1: Install a model inside rootfs

### Step 1. Upload the model to the ChromeOS file mirror

Once you have a model ready that you want to publish, upload it to
https://storage.googleapis.com/chromeos-localmirror/distfiles/.
The web interface is
https://pantheon.corp.google.com/storage/browser/chromeos-localmirror/distfiles.
The mirror is accessible to all Googlers with prod access.

There is no directory structure under `distfiles/`, so the filename needs to be
unique enough to avoid conflicts.
This is the **required convention** for filenames of models:

```
mlservice-model-<feature_name_and_variant>-<timestamp_and_version>.<ext>
```

* `mlservice-model` is a fixed prefix
* `<feature_name_and_variant>` should indicate the feature that this model is
  built for and any variant of the model if applicable
* `<timestamp_and_version>` is used to differentiate different versions of the
  same model. The preferred format is `20180725`. To disambiguate further, the
  actual time (hour, minutes, etc) can be added, or you can add a version string
  like `-v2`.

An example of filename is:
`mlservice-model-tab_discarder_quantized-20180507-v2.tflite`.

After you upload the file, make it publicly visible by selecting Edit
Permissions and adding a 'Reader' permission for a Group named 'allUsers'.

Files in the ChromeOS file mirror should never be deleted. You simply add newer
models as you need them, but leave the previous ones in the mirror, even if you
don't plan to use them ever again.

### Step 2. Write an ebuild to install the model into rootfs

Once your model is uploaded to the ChromeOS file mirror, the next step is to
create a CL.
This CL will have changes to the [ML Service ebuild], which installs the
model(s) into rootfs.
The ebuild is located at
`/chromiumos/overlays/chromiumos-overlay/chromeos-base/ml/ml-9999.ebuild`.
Simply add your models in the `system_models` variable: they are installed in the
`src_install()` function in the same file.
The install location in the ChromeOS system is `/opt/google/chrome/ml_models`.

Then you need to update the Manifest file. In the ebuild path above, run
`ebuild <ebuild_file> manifest`.
A new entry for the new model will be added into Manifest file. This is the
checksum to ensure the model file is downloaded successfully.

See [CL/1125701] (and relative fix in [CL/1140020]) as an example.

### Step 3. Update ML Service daemon to serve the new model

There are three places to update here:

1. Add the model to the Mojo interface in [model.mojom].
2. Add a metadata entry to [model_metadata.cc].
3. Add a basic [loading & inference test] for the model.

See [this CL](https://crrev.com/c/1342736) for an example of all the above.

## Method #2: Use DLC to install a model inside the stateful partition

> WARNING: This section is pending the implementation of DLC Service.
> See [go/dlc-service-proposal] for more info.


## Which method to use and why {#two-methods-why}
We provide two methods of model deployment, each with their own pros and cons.

Method #1, installing inside rootfs, has the benefit of making the model
available right after the system boots for the first time.
No updates and thus no network connection is required.
Besides, it was better suited as a starting point to create a working prototype
of the ML Service in the early stages of development.

Method #1 has one big limit: storage space on rootfs. Since we want to avoid
increasing the size of rootfs, we reserve this method for those models that are
either very small (less than 30KB) or that are system critical and need to be
available before the first successful update of the device.

Method #2 is the solution to the limitation of Method #1. Large models can be
installed this way, because we have no restrictions on the size increase of the
stateful partition (within reason).
Models are installed in an encrypted partition. Files in that partition are
shared by all users.

Method #2 promises to bind models to platform releases, so all models can be
verified and tested automatically before they are sent to device.

The disadvantage of Method #2 is that the model cannot be used until
the system has succesfully updated.

If you believe that your case is eligible for Method #1, contact
chrome-knowledge-eng@ to get your case approved.


## Upgrading to a new version of a model

If you have a new, probably better version of a model, these are the recommended
steps to swap it in:

1. Chrome OS: Add it as a separate model using the instructions above, with a
   timestamped name like MY_MODEL_201905.
2. Chrome: [Add a feature flag][add-feature-flag] and use it to toggle between
   the old & new versions of the model.
   * If any Chrome-side pre-processing or post-processing code is
     model-dependent, this should also be toggled based on this feature flag.
   * Consider updating your existing unit tests to run against both versions of
     the model, by using TEST_P.
3. Finch: Launch the new feature according to the instructions at
   [go/finch-best-practices]. Those instructions will take you all the way
   through to removing the feature flag you added above.
4. Chrome OS: Mark the old model MY_MODEL_OLD as unsupported:
   1. Rename the old model to UNSUPPORTED_MY_MODEL_OLD in [model.mojom].
   2. Remove the model from [model_metadata.cc], and remove its [loading &
      inference test].
   3. Update the [ML Service ebuild] to no longer install the model file onto
      rootfs. Remove it from the Manifest file in the same directory.

If the model you are replacing hasn't launched yet, you can of course skip the
Finch rollout. Optionally, you can also take this shortcut (with caveats):

* Upload a new .tflite file, update the [ML Service ebuild], and then directly
  change [model_metadata.cc] to point the existing model at that file, instead
  of adding a new model ID. This will silently swap the model (from Chrome's
  POV).
* If there is any Chrome-side logic that depends on the specific version of the
  model (such as pre-processing config), it will break. You can update Chrome at
  the "same" time, but it will be a day or three before Chrome is up-revved into
  Chrome OS and everything is back in sync. It's to you if breaking your
  unlaunched feature for a few days is OK. (Don't cause Chrome to start crashing
  of course.)


[add-feature-flag]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/HEAD/docs/how_to_add_your_feature_flag.md
[CL/1125701]: http://crrev.com/c/1125701
[CL/1140020]: http://crrev.com/c/1140020
[go/cros-ml-service-models]: http://go/cros-ml-service-models
[go/dlc-service-proposal]: http://go/dlc-service-proposal
[go/finch-best-practices]: http://go/finch-best-practices
[go/toco]: http://go/toco
[loading & inference test]: https://cs.corp.google.com/chromeos_public/src/platform2/ml/machine_learning_service_impl_test.cc
[ML Service ebuild]: https://cs.corp.google.com/chromeos_public/src/third_party/chromiumos-overlay/chromeos-base/ml/ml-9999.ebuild
[model.mojom]: https://cs.corp.google.com/chromeos_public/src/platform2/ml/mojom/model.mojom
[model_metadata.cc]: https://cs.corp.google.com/chromeos_public/src/platform2/ml/model_metadata.cc

Commit message:

ml: Add TFLite version table to docs
This is important as we are now starting to tackle version skew issues.

BUG=none
TEST=looked at preview

Change-Id: Ia1d0468911530778fd29a7a8e2572f94e2e28882
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/1684616
Tested-by: Andrew Moylan <amoylan@chromium.org>
Commit-Ready: Andrew Moylan <amoylan@chromium.org>
Legacy-Commit-Queue: Commit Bot <commit-bot@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Andrew Moylan <amoylan@chromium.org>

ml/docs/publish_model.md, after:

# ChromeOS ML Service: How to publish your ML models

This page explains how to publish a trained ML model so that the ML Service
can make it available at runtime for inference.
Design doc for model publishing: [go/cros-ml-service-models].

[TOC]

## Model format

Currently the ML Service supports **TensorFlow Lite** models. Each model needs
to be a single file. The file format is a TFLite flat buffers (extension
.tflite).

You can convert a TF model into a TFLite model using the [TensorFlow Lite
Converter (Toco)][toco] tool.

### TFLite runtime version

You need to be aware what (minimum) version of the TFLite runtime your model
requires.
> TODO(amoylan): Show an example of how to verify this using Toco.

The following table shows the version of ML Service's TFLite runtime for each
CrOS major version:

| CrOS version    | TFLite version   |
|:---------------:|:----------------:|
| M71 (and prior) | (none)           |
| M72             | 1.9.0            |
| M73             | 1.9.0            |
| M74             | 1.9.0            |
| M75             | 1.9.0            |
| M76             | 1.9.0            |
| M77             | 1.14.0 (planned) |


## Two methods to publish your models

Two methods will be supported to publish an ML model:

1. Installed into rootfs partition.
2. Installed into the user partition as a downloadable component by DLC
Service.

> WARNING: Currently only the first method is supported. DLC is still under
> development and its ETA is Q4 2018.

To know more about which method you should use and why we have two, read
[section below](#two-methods-why).
In general, **method #2 is the preferred option**, unless you know that you need
method #1 and you have received permission to increase the storage size of
rootfs. Remember that storage in rootfs is limited and we are trying to control
rootfs growth as much as possible.

## Method #1: Install a model inside rootfs

### Step 1. Upload the model to the ChromeOS file mirror

Once you have a model ready that you want to publish, upload it to
https://storage.googleapis.com/chromeos-localmirror/distfiles/.
The web interface is
https://pantheon.corp.google.com/storage/browser/chromeos-localmirror/distfiles.
The mirror is accessible to all Googlers with prod access.

There is no directory structure under `distfiles/`, so the filename needs to be
unique enough to avoid conflicts.
This is the **required convention** for filenames of models:

```
mlservice-model-<feature_name_and_variant>-<timestamp_and_version>.<ext>
```

* `mlservice-model` is a fixed prefix
* `<feature_name_and_variant>` should indicate the feature that this model is
  built for and any variant of the model if applicable
* `<timestamp_and_version>` is used to differentiate different versions of the
  same model. The preferred format is `20180725`. To disambiguate further, the
  actual time (hour, minutes, etc) can be added, or you can add a version string
  like `-v2`.

An example of filename is:
`mlservice-model-tab_discarder_quantized-20180507-v2.tflite`.

After you upload the file, make it publicly visible by selecting Edit
Permissions and adding a 'Reader' permission for a Group named 'allUsers'.

Files in the ChromeOS file mirror should never be deleted. You simply add newer
models as you need them, but leave the previous ones in the mirror, even if you
don't plan to use them ever again.

### Step 2. Write an ebuild to install the model into rootfs

Once your model is uploaded to the ChromeOS file mirror, the next step is to
create a CL.
This CL will have changes to the [ML Service ebuild], which installs the
model(s) into rootfs.
The ebuild is located at
`/chromiumos/overlays/chromiumos-overlay/chromeos-base/ml/ml-9999.ebuild`.
Simply add your models in the `system_models` variable: they are installed in the
`src_install()` function in the same file.
The install location in the ChromeOS system is `/opt/google/chrome/ml_models`.

Then you need to update the Manifest file. In the ebuild path above, run
`ebuild <ebuild_file> manifest`.
A new entry for the new model will be added into Manifest file. This is the
checksum to ensure the model file is downloaded successfully.

See [CL/1125701] (and relative fix in [CL/1140020]) as an example.

### Step 3. Update ML Service daemon to serve the new model

There are three places to update here:

1. Add the model to the Mojo interface in [model.mojom].
2. Add a metadata entry to [model_metadata.cc].
3. Add a basic [loading & inference test] for the model.

See [this CL](https://crrev.com/c/1342736) for an example of all the above.

## Method #2: Use DLC to install a model inside the stateful partition

> WARNING: This section is pending the implementation of DLC Service.
> See [go/dlc-service-proposal] for more info.


## Which method to use and why {#two-methods-why}
We provide two methods of model deployment, each with their own pros and cons.

Method #1, installing inside rootfs, has the benefit of making the model
available right after the system boots for the first time.
No updates and thus no network connection is required.
Besides, it was better suited as a starting point to create a working prototype
of the ML Service in the early stages of development.

Method #1 has one big limit: storage space on rootfs. Since we want to avoid
increasing the size of rootfs, we reserve this method for those models that are
either very small (less than 30KB) or that are system critical and need to be
available before the first successful update of the device.

Method #2 is the solution to the limitation of Method #1. Large models can be
installed this way, because we have no restrictions on the size increase of the
stateful partition (within reason).
Models are installed in an encrypted partition. Files in that partition are
shared by all users.

Method #2 promises to bind models to platform releases, so all models can be
verified and tested automatically before they are sent to device.

The disadvantage of Method #2 is that the model cannot be used until
the system has succesfully updated.

If you believe that your case is eligible for Method #1, contact
chrome-knowledge-eng@ to get your case approved.


## Upgrading to a new version of a model

If you have a new, probably better version of a model, these are the recommended
steps to swap it in:

1. Chrome OS: Add it as a separate model using the instructions above, with a
   timestamped name like MY_MODEL_201905.
2. Chrome: [Add a feature flag][add-feature-flag] and use it to toggle between
   the old & new versions of the model.
   * If any Chrome-side pre-processing or post-processing code is
     model-dependent, this should also be toggled based on this feature flag.
   * Consider updating your existing unit tests to run against both versions of
     the model, by using TEST_P.
3. Finch: Launch the new feature according to the instructions at
   [go/finch-best-practices]. Those instructions will take you all the way
   through to removing the feature flag you added above.
4. Chrome OS: Mark the old model MY_MODEL_OLD as unsupported:
   1. Rename the old model to UNSUPPORTED_MY_MODEL_OLD in [model.mojom].
   2. Remove the model from [model_metadata.cc], and remove its [loading &
      inference test].
   3. Update the [ML Service ebuild] to no longer install the model file onto
      rootfs. Remove it from the Manifest file in the same directory.

If the model you are replacing hasn't launched yet, you can of course skip the
Finch rollout. Optionally, you can also take this shortcut (with caveats):

* Upload a new .tflite file, update the [ML Service ebuild], and then directly
  change [model_metadata.cc] to point the existing model at that file, instead
  of adding a new model ID. This will silently swap the model (from Chrome's
  POV).
* If there is any Chrome-side logic that depends on the specific version of the
  model (such as pre-processing config), it will break. You can update Chrome at
  the "same" time, but it will be a day or three before Chrome is up-revved into
  Chrome OS and everything is back in sync. It's to you if breaking your
  unlaunched feature for a few days is OK. (Don't cause Chrome to start crashing
  of course.)


[add-feature-flag]: https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/HEAD/docs/how_to_add_your_feature_flag.md
[CL/1125701]: http://crrev.com/c/1125701
[CL/1140020]: http://crrev.com/c/1140020
[go/cros-ml-service-models]: http://go/cros-ml-service-models
[go/dlc-service-proposal]: http://go/dlc-service-proposal
[go/finch-best-practices]: http://go/finch-best-practices
[toco]: https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/lite/toco
[loading & inference test]: https://cs.corp.google.com/chromeos_public/src/platform2/ml/machine_learning_service_impl_test.cc
[ML Service ebuild]: https://cs.corp.google.com/chromeos_public/src/third_party/chromiumos-overlay/chromeos-base/ml/ml-9999.ebuild
[model.mojom]: https://cs.corp.google.com/chromeos_public/src/platform2/ml/mojom/model.mojom
[model_metadata.cc]: https://cs.corp.google.com/chromeos_public/src/platform2/ml/model_metadata.cc
