crash-reporter/docs/hacking.md, before:

# Developing, Breaking, Fixing, and Testing

When developing crash-reporter, or even simply running a dev or test image,
there's a few settings to be aware of that control/override runtime behavior.

If testing via ssh, or you otherwise skipped setting up consent, you can opt-in
to crash collection by running:
```sh
# metrics_client -C
```

By default, coredumps will be removed after creating minidumps.
You can `touch /root/.leave_core` to change that behavior.

Similarly, if you want Chrome coredumps to be retained, you can `touch
/mnt/stateful_partition/etc/collect_chrome_crashes`.

Crash uploading is disabled on test images.
You can force them to be uploaded by running:
```sh
# crash_sender -e FORCE_OFFICIAL=1 --max_spread_time=0
```

The `--max_spread_time=0` option is to make `crash_sender` upload right away.
Otherwise it'll sleep a random amount of time (up to 10 minutes) between
reports.

If you're running a test image, `FORCE_OFFICIAL=1` isn't sufficient.
You will also have to `touch /run/crash_reporter/crash-test-in-progress`.
This will bypass all normal OS image checks though, so use this with caution.

Commit message:

crash: Remove FORCE_OFFICIAL and add --dev flag
This removes the FORCE_OFFICIAL env var as we don't need that anymore
with the C++ unit testing. We added a '--dev' flag to crash_sender which
will skip the test & official image checks and upload the crashes
anyways, in this case they will go to the crash-staging server instead
of the normal crash server.

BUG=chromium:927933, chromium:391887
TEST=Unit and autotests pass
Cq-Depend: chromium:1597175

Change-Id: I4729ab194d6917c67afde6c6390ba7a77f583a25
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/1597972
Commit-Ready: ChromeOS CL Exonerator Bot <chromiumos-cl-exonerator@appspot.gserviceaccount.com>
Tested-by: Jeffrey Kardatzke <jkardatzke@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Tim Zheng <timzheng@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Jeffrey Kardatzke <jkardatzke@google.com>

crash-reporter/docs/hacking.md, after:

# Developing, Breaking, Fixing, and Testing

When developing crash-reporter, or even simply running a dev or test image,
there's a few settings to be aware of that control/override runtime behavior.

If testing via ssh, or you otherwise skipped setting up consent, you can opt-in
to crash collection by running:
```sh
# metrics_client -C
```

By default, coredumps will be removed after creating minidumps.
You can `touch /root/.leave_core` to change that behavior.

Similarly, if you want Chrome coredumps to be retained, you can `touch
/mnt/stateful_partition/etc/collect_chrome_crashes`.

Crash uploading is disabled on test images.
You can force them to be uploaded by running:
```sh
# crash_sender --dev --max_spread_time=0
```

The `--max_spread_time=0` option is to make `crash_sender` upload right away.
Otherwise it'll sleep a random amount of time (up to 10 minutes) between
reports.

Crash reports uploaded with the `--dev` flag will be sent to the staging crash
server which can be access at http://go/crash-staging.
